# Reflections
## 1.1 Think About Time Reflection
Which time management and productivity ideas did you learn about?
I learned about all the different benefits of meditation. I didn’t know it helped you with so many aspects of life. I didn’t know that there were different types of meditation. I practiced meditation sometimes when I would listen to music and I would focus on one instrument or one beat, and then I would tune everything else out. I had no idea that that can be considered meditation. I learned that meditation helps your brain stop processing beta waves after you meditate. I learned that it makes you get better at focusing when you’re not meditating, it helps reduce anxiety overall, it helps you rationalize situations in which you have an impulse to not be rational (emotional), it improves creativity, it helps you become more empathetic and compassionate, it increases your overall productivity by allowing you to tune out distractions, and it helps you feel less stressed when you’re under pressure. I already knew a lot about making habits, even though most of the time for some parts of my life I don’t put those things I know to work. When I was in high school I played in band and my band director was very big on habits. He used to tell us “there is no other reason for your success or failure other than your state of mind, and that is shown by your habits”. In band we would do these exercises every day to help us become better musicians. Every day we would do breathing exercises and then we would do different scales. Everything he taught us made a lot of sense and it did make us better musicians. When I got to college it was proven to me by all the music majors I knew that the only way they would get better at everything was by practicing their scale and by doing all the things my band director had taught us. It’s all about muscle memory. So, overall, I already knew many different things about forming habits, but I never really applied them to other aspects of my life.
What is "Time Boxing?" How can you use it in Phase 0?
Time boxing is when you decided on a set time frame to do something, and you only dedicate that amount of time to it, regardless to whether or not you actually finished what you had planned. For example, time boxing is when I decide to work on my assignments for 30 minutes non stop, and at the end of the 30 minutes I evaluate how much I got done.
How do you manage your time currently?
I have somewhat poor time management skills right now. When I was in college I would procrastinate everything. I now know that if I want to believe and prove to myself that I can actually get very good at managing my time, I have to start little by little. Right now I just determine all the things I have to get done in the day, and then I evaluate how much time I have for each thing. Then I decide which of those things are extremely important and then I do those first. Then the things that are not as important I leave for the following day or the day after that.
Is your current strategy working? If not, why not?
My current strategy is not working so well because I prioritize things wrong. I have to give all priority to getting my assignments done. That’s the number one thing in my life right now. I think my emotions have a big impact in how I manage my time, and I know that I need to get better at being objective and stopping my emotional responses to certain things. I also procrastinate a lot and I get distracted easily. It’s going to be difficult to break those bad habits, but I know it can be done because I’m serious about becoming a programmer.
Can/will you employ any of them? If so, how?
I will get in the habit of meditating every day. I can do that. I can start by doing it 5 minutes each day. I will also do time boxing with my assignments. Every day from Monday to Friday I have 3 hours per night to spare for doing my homework. I will commit to working on my assignments for only those three hours. Then I will evaluate each day how much I got done. I will try this on week two. I will incorporate something like the pomodorro method because I definitely suffer from too many distractions when I am trying to get my work done. I will stop and evaluate what those distractions are, and I will find a way to stop them from distracting me. Meditating will help me become more focused also, so I plan on meditating as much as I can.
What is your overall plan for Phase 0 time management?
My overall plan is to do at least one assignment per day. At the beginning of every week I will look at all the challenges and determine which is the hardest/longest. I will try to leave that one for Saturday, but in order to get all my assignments done each week I need to get all the other assignments done during the week. If by Saturday I realize I have too much left to do, then I will commit all day Saturday and half of the day on Sunday. If I got most of the bulk done, then I will split the work between Saturday and Sunday. I think mostly it’s a trial and error type of thing where I decide I'm gonna try to do my work a certain way, and if I find that I’m too pressured at the end then I will change it, and go from there.
## 1.2 The Command Line Reflection
What is a shell? What is "bash?”
A shell is a user interface. User interfaces can be either graphical, like what most people that aren’t programmers see every day, or they can be command-line interfaces, like what programmers see when they use a terminal. The command line allows you to unleash the full “horsepower” of your computer because you are able too look at everything inside it, not just what is on the surface.
What was the most challenging for you in going through this material
I didn’t think that this material was challenging at all. It all came down to just memorizing and remembering the commands. I had to figure out how to copy a file from one directory into another. It was specified in the book so I had to look it up online, but it was not too difficult overall. I think that the more we do this, the more shortcuts we will find, and the more time we will save when using the command line. I didn’t exactly like the first part of the video because it was difficult to follow along as to what was going on.
Were you able to successfully use all of the commands? Yes, I was able to use all the commands in the book.
In your opinion, what are the most important commands and arguments to know? I think the most important commands are the ones that teach you how to make/copy/move files (mv, cp, mkdir, touch) and the ones that show you how to navigate between directories (../, cd). Also, “man” is very important for getting help. Overall, everything is important, otherwise we wouldn’t be learning it.
Can you remember what each of the following does of the top of your head? Write what each does.
-pwd :print working directory — this informs you of where you are in your “folders”
-ls:lists the contents of the directory you are currently in
-mv:move a file or directory (move file 1 into file 2)
-cd:change directory
-../ :go back to the previous directory (meaning go up a folder)
-touch :creates an empty file
-mkdir:make directory — use / to create directories inside directories and so on
-less :display a file’s contents. You can also use grep to look at what each file has inside. You can look for words or general information about words in files
-rmdir:remove directory
-rm :remove a file. rm -rf allows you to remove a directory that isn’t empty
-help :shows you different commands
## 1.4 Forking and Cloning Reflection
If you were going to write instructions for a new person on how to create a new repo, fork a repo, and clone a repo, what would they be? Why would you fork a repository as opposed to create a new one?
To create a new repository, go to github.com and log in to your account. On the top right hand corner there should be an icon with your picture or just the Github icon if you haven’t already uploaded a profile picture. Right next to this icon there is a + sign. Click on this sign and select new repository. This will create a new repository. You will then be prompted to the new repository page. Give the repository a name, make it public or private, and give it a license. Then select “create repository” at the bottom of the screen.
FORKING is done all on github. When you are already at the repository you want. Select “fork” on the upper right hand corner. Now when you work on this it won’t affect the original copy of it, but it will change your copy of it. It won’t change the original version of this project.
To clone, select the https url on the right hand side. Go on your terminal and create a directory where you want to save this clone of the repository. Then, type “git clone” and then paste the url you copied from github. Hit enter. All the files will then download.Enter -ls to see if all the files have been successfully downloaded.
Forking a repository is better than creating one because its efficient. Someone already created it and all you want is a copy of it. Forking saves you all the time you would spend putting the files together and it allows you to copy a repo as many times as you want in a time saving manner.
It is good to have many copies of repos because in one you could do some exploration with your code and on the other you could just do your actual serious work. Then you would just keep the things you want and remove the things you don’t want.
What struggles did you have setting up git and GitHub? What did you learn in the process?
I didn’t have any problems setting up git and GitHub. The only thing i still don’t know how to do is how to delete a repo from my GitHub account. I will continue to play around with it until i figure it out. I learned the difference between Git and GitHub. I understand now how we will be collaborating on projects using GitHub in the future.